Dear students,

the second assignment (corresponding to the second challenge) is the game solver. More precisely:

you are given a game tree,
you are required to find an approximate solution in terms of epsilon-Nash strategy profile.
As you know, the problem of finding a Nash equilibrium in 2-player zero-sum games can be formulated as a
Linear Programming problem (LP) and therefore solved in polynomial time in the size of the game. However, when a
game tree is huge, linear programming is impractical (the same happens in the case of Markov Decision Processes:
you can formulate them as LPs, but the solvers cannot be used for huge problems, and any-time techniques, such as
value iteration, are used). In the case of 2-player zero-sum games, the state-of-the-art techniques are based on the
minimization of the regret. Regret Matching (RM) is the main algorithm for normal-form games, while Counter Factual
Regret (CFR) minimisation is the extension of RM to extensive-form games. We remark that many different favours of CFR
are known, such as, e.g., CFR+, CFR-BR, discounted CFR, Monte Carlo CFR.

In this assignment, you are required to implement the CFR algorithm in the flavour you prefer. The CFR algorithm will
be combined with the abstract generator previously designed. In this way:

you will be given a game,
your abstract generator will generete an abstraction,
this abstraction will be the input to the CFR algorithm,
the CFR algorithm will produce an approximate equilibrium, called blueprint,
these strategie will be remapped to the original game by using part of the code developed for the first assignment.
I anticipate you that in the last challenge, you will refine the blueprint strategy (that is the equilibrium strategy
of the abstract game) to produce a more accurate strategy for the original game.

To support your work, we produced a video lecture providing an introduction to RM and CFR. It is a duty of you finding
a good favour of CFR from the literature and then implement it. Furthermore, next week, the lecture of Thursday will be
devoted to the clarification of possible doubts on CFR. The link to the video is (https://youtu.be/J1Q-Y_Rxzew), while
the link to slides is (https://www.dropbox.com/s/8br8sw6wznk6c26/Regret%20matching.pdf?dl=0).

Best regards and good luck,

Nicola.